In a season filled with noise, with full calendars, full schedules, and full hands, we can still find ourselves feeling empty.
But Christmas was never meant to be crowded.
It was meant to be clear, simple, uncluttered.
When we make room, we discover the gift that was there all along.
Good morning.
How's everybody doing this morning?
Hey, let me be the first to tell you this morning, Merry Christmas.
Man, we are right in the beginning stages.
It's cold outside.
It feels like winter.
In fact, I walked across the parking lot.
The staff all parks across the street and I literally started singing.
It's beginning to feel a lot like Christmas.
It doesn't look like Christmas.
It's not snowy outside, but man, it feels like Christmas.
It's cold.
Hey, I'm so glad that you're here today.
My name is Pastor Chris.
My wife and I had the honor and the privilege of leading what God's doing through encounter church.
And I'm glad that you're here today.
We are kicking off a brand new series that we're simply calling the uncluttered Christmas.
It's a four week series that will take us up to Christmas and right into Christmas.
But how many of you would agree with me today?
that if we're not careful, we can find ourselves cluttering the Christmas season so much that we lose sight of the real meaning of Christmas.
Come on, let me ask that again.
How many of you would agree with me that if we're not careful, we can find ourselves cluttering Christmas the season so much with details and items and parties and cakes and cookies and all the goodies and all the things that we lose sight of what truly matters for the season?
Here's what I understand.
Christmas isn't about doing more.
It's about making room for what really matters.
And that's Jesus.
I love that song we just sang.
Is there room in your heart?
This Christmas season, I want to encourage you, take a moment amongst the busyness, amongst the chaos, amongst the clutter of Christmas,
Would you just take a moment and slow down?
Take a moment to say, Lord, I give you time.
Lord, I give you myself.
Lord, I give you room in my heart.
I give you room in my life.
I give you room in my family just to move as you desire.
You see, we must choose to clear out the clutter if we desire to make room for Jesus.
In the middle of this culture that is so consumed and truthfully celebrates chaos, it celebrates consumerism.
How many of you went Black Friday shopping?
How many of you went Black Friday shopping online?
Oh, there's some more hands.
Yeah, we went out yesterday as a family and I was looking for two particular items.
I went into Menards and went in there and they had two little boxes.
It's these little car things.
And I was going to pick up a couple of these.
And I asked the lady.
I said, hey, where can I find them?
She says, we only have two left in the store, but they may be in somebody's carts.
I said, I'm about to make this old school Black Friday.
Let's go.
I really, I mean, I said that about those kids.
I ended up finding them on a little rollabout cart.
They're in the middle of the store and I grabbed them and went home.
But I thought back just for a moment, man, kids these days, teenagers these days, they don't even know what Black Friday shopping was.
Come on, how many of you remember getting up at 3.30 in the morning so you could stand in line at Walmart to buy a TV that you didn't need, but it was on sale so you had to have it.
Oh, we still have a TV from like 20 years ago.
I remember going to Cuba, Missouri, little tiny Walmart.
At that point in time, nobody knew the Walmart was there.
So it was easy to go in.
There wasn't a big line.
But as the years went by, people discovered that, hey, I can go to a small Walmart.
So they travel from hours and hours away to go to this little Walmart.
And the very last Black Friday shopping we did there, it was back to back walking like this.
We live in a culture that is consumed with chaos, consumed with consumerism.
But I believe that in this season, Jesus invites us to slow down, to declutter our hearts, to rediscover the peace, the joy, the hope, the love that can only be found in Him.
So over the next four weeks, I wanna dig in to just that.
I wanna take a look at what does it mean to declutter our lives and give it truly, give it all to Jesus?
I need you to do me a favor though.
There are some of you in the room that you're gonna hear the Christmas story for the very first time.
Maybe you grew up in a home where you didn't read the Christmas story on Christmas morning.
Maybe for you, Christmas is just about that overweight guy with the big long beard that kind of jiggles when he laughs.
Don't look at somebody else in the room.
Some heads just kind of turn and look at people.
No, don't do that.
No, some of you, that's what you know of Christmas.
And I would challenge you as we go into this Christmas series, allow God to let his word
become alive.
I believe there's something that we can learn from the Christmas story.
But there are others of you in the room today or maybe even watching online that you've heard these stories, the same Christmas story for 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70 years.
I'm going to challenge you.
Wipe that slate clean and allow God to
to bring it to you with a clear set of lenses, with a new perspective this Christmas season.
I believe that God wants to speak into our heart in a real way.
So today, I wanna take a moment.
I wanna look at the first of four areas that need attention as we unclutter or declutter this most wonderful time of the year.
More specifically, I wanna look at a moment when a young teenage girl
Mary has a life-changing encounter with the angel Gabriel.
Take a look at what it says.
And Luke chapter 1, it says, in the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a village in Galilee, to a virgin named Mary.
She was engaged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descendant of King David.
Gabriel appeared to her and said,
Greetings, favored woman.
The Lord is with you.
Now hold on to that little sentence.
We're gonna come back to that in just a moment.
Verse 29, confused and disturbed.
Mary tried to think of what the angel could possibly mean.
Don't be afraid, Mary.
The angel told her, for you have found favor with God.
You will conceive and give birth to a son and you will name him Jesus.
He will be very great.
and would be called the son of the Most High.
The Lord God will give him the throne of his ancestor David and he will reign over Israel forever.
His kingdom will never end.
Mary asked the angel, but how can this happen?
I'm a virgin.
The angel replied, the Holy Spirit will come upon you and the power of the Most High will overshadow you.
So the baby to be born will be holy and he will be called
the Son of God.
What's more is your relative Elizabeth has become pregnant in her old age.
People used to say that she was barren, but she has conceived a son and is now in her sixth month for the word of God will never fail.
Mary responded, I am the Lord's servant.
May everything you have said about me come true.
And the angel left her.
I love verse 37.
This is where we're going to rest today.
The Bible says for nothing is impossible with God.
That word nothing, literally it's a word.
It's hard to describe in the English language, but it literally means absolute negative.
There is no more negative than this word.
Nothing is impossible with God.
I want you to look at your situation today because some of us, we use this phrase.
In fact, we'll encourage a friend when a friend's going through a difficult time.
We'll say, hey, just remember, man, nothing's impossible with God.
It's a powerful verse.
It's a great sounding verse.
We quote it quite often, but the problem lies in the fact is when it comes to our personal situation.
Unfortunately, many times we're not sure that it truly applies.
Nothing.
The absolute negative, nothing is impossible for God.
Really?
What about my relationship issues?
What about the financial debacle that we're in right now?
What about that call that I got from the doctor?
What do I do about that?
Well, here's the reality.
Mary didn't know, she didn't truly even understand all that life would send her way.
But what she did know and what she stood upon was the fact, come on, the fact that nothing is or was or ever will be impossible with God.
I'm going to challenge you in this message this morning.
Place yourself in this position of a young teenage girl, suddenly the angel of the Lord Gabriel appears to you.
He says, greetings, you're highly favored.
I got some incredible news for you.
Nothing's impossible with God.
I don't know what you're facing today, but I believe that God is ready and God is willing to pour hope upon your life.
for Mary, whether it was her cousin Elizabeth having a child at a very old age or Mary having a baby when she had never even been with the man, she understood that she had to rest in the fact that nothing was impossible with God, even though these things did not compute in her limited ability of thinking, come on, how many of you know, our ability is limited?
The Bible says that his ways are not our ways, his thoughts are beyond
our thoughts, they're far beyond what we can even comprehend.
But yet in this moment, Mary rested in the fact that nothing was impossible with God.
Such a bizarre, seemingly unexplainable situation.
But Mary chose, as she processed through the clutter, she chose the trust in God.
Oh, look what she says in verse 34.
But how can this happen?
I'm a virgin.
I love the fact that when they're riding the Christmas story, they included moments like this.
They could have just said, hey, the angel Gabriel appeared to Mary and said, greeting favored woman of God.
You're going to have a baby and Mary's like, let's go.
But for many of us, it's been hard to grab ahold of that, wouldn't it?
When we see the human side of Mary, when we see her confusion in her doubt, the Bible says that she was bewildered in her mind.
She struggled in this moment, not doubting God, but doubting the how.
Maybe for you, how's God gonna restore my marriage?
How's God going to
Heal my body or heal my friend.
How's God gonna step in and be Jehovah-Jireh, which means my provider?
How's he gonna be my provider financially or relationally?
How can he get rid of my anxiety and my depression?
How's that even possible?
Mary says, how can this happen?
I'm a virgin, yet suddenly we see in rapid succession
The explanation, the assurance, the angel begins to display all of this to Mary.
In verse 37, he gives the assurance.
He says, God will never fail.
His word will never fail.
Verse 36, he talks about Elizabeth.
He says, you're cousin Elizabeth.
She's old, but she's having a baby.
Come on, may we never be that example.
Come on, somebody, those of you in your 50s, 60s, and 70s, you're like, ah, ah, not today.
She's old, but she's having a baby.
And then this word of assurance falls before her.
Here's what we must understand going into this message.
Your situation may seem overwhelming.
It may seem so bizarre in your mind.
It may seem like there's no hope on the other side.
It may seem like there's no way to find a resolution.
It may seem like you're at an impasse in life, but just as he did this in Mary's life, I want you to know God is still the same.
He's got a hope.
He's got a peace.
He's got a comforts.
Yes, the situation may be different, but our God is the same.
Nothing is impossible for him.
There is hope in Jesus today.
In fact, look at your neighbor today, put it in the chat today.
There is hope in Jesus.
I look this word up this morning just as a little foundation and a biblical form of the word hope because when we hear hope, what do we think?
Well, I hope it works out.
I hope that the resolution comes.
I hope that the marriage is restored.
I hope.
But what does that word look like when we put Jesus in the mix?
Well, hope is often seen as a confident expectation.
Come on.
It's a confident expectation.
It's a trust in God's promises.
It's not just a wishful thinking.
It's a firm assurance that God is faithful and that His plans for us are good.
Today, I want you to offer this moment, offer this situation to God, but in return, would you stand in the confident expectation
that God is going to show up on your behalf, that God will meet you where you are today.
Why?
Because there's hope in Jesus.
But here's the problem.
During this Christmas season, our calendars seem to fill up faster than our hearts do.
If we're being honest, we get cluttered.
We say they weren't just preparing for Christmas, but if we're honest today, most of the time we're preparing for chaos.
We decorate our homes.
We wrap our gifts.
We check off our list, but somewhere along the way, we lose our peace and we lose our hope.
Patience falls to the wayside.
Joy is no longer seen.
The stress load becomes higher than ever before.
this series, The Uncluttered Christmas.
I'm presenting it this year because I believe that God is inviting us, you and I, to slow down and just to make room for Him.
You see, that's been our theme for the year.
To make room in our hearts, to make room in our lives, to make room in His church, to make room in the world, for God to move.
And I believe that the Christmas season
is no different.
Because before there was ever angels and shepherds, before there were ever wise men or gifts, before there was even a manger, there was this young woman named Mary in a small town called Nazareth, who made room in her heart for God to move.
Now, if you keep reading the Christmas story, you get into chapter two.
After all said and done, it says that Mary
took all of these things and she treasured them in her hearts and she thought about them often.
Why did she do that?
Because she had opened up this space and she realized that when she rested in the hope, when she rested in the foundation, in the strength of God, only in those moments can she see herself working through and finding resolution on the other side in the uncluttered situation.
So today I want to give you three truths of an uncluttered hope.
Number one is this.
God often speaks in the midst of our cluttered moments.
Aren't you grateful that God speaks even in the midst of our cluttered mess?
Yes?
I'm just going to talk to this side today because you guys are with me.
You guys are still asleep.
You ate too much turkey.
Come on.
God often speaks in the midst of our cluttered
moments.
I want to step into an amazing story today.
I want us to understand that Mary wasn't in any way expecting or even planning this visit with the angel Gabriel.
She hadn't gone on a weekend spiritual retreat.
She hadn't taken some scrolls and was reading through the Torah and reading with the Word of God.
She wasn't pressing in to the presence of God.
She wasn't kneeling at the altar at the local synagogue.
No, no, no, no.
She was in the midst of her ordinary routine, her regular life, and got interrupted the clutter with something absolutely extraordinary.
Verse 28, the angel Gabriel appeared to her and said, Greetings, favored woman.
The Lord is with you.
Man, there's so much that we can unpack in that little verse alone.
so much that I want us to see.
I don't have time to dig into all of the, but right in the middle of all of the clutter, right in the middle of all the wedding planning and all the chaos of life, the angel Gabriel appears to a poor, young teenage girl.
Two things he says.
Number one, he says greetings.
Now this is more than just a, hello.
Good to see you.
How are things going moment?
This word greeting, it literally, it means be glad.
Rejoice, thrive.
He looks at Mary, he says, be glad.
Rejoice in this moment, thrive in the situation.
You are favored amongst God's people.
I believe that God is saying this to you today.
There are some of you in the room.
You don't feel like thriving.
You feel the way to the world on your shoulders.
But I want you to hear the second thing that the angel Gabriel said to Mary.
He said, greetings favored woman.
Greetings favored woman.
Many of us seemingly have lost our hope and our joy.
We, we seem like we don't know how to move on.
We don't see, we seem like we don't know how to go to that next step because our, our clutter has, have you ever watched that show, um, hoarders?
Wow.
It's overwhelming, isn't it?
Man, you watch the show and you walk into the house and all there is is a pathway around because things are piled.
Some of us, that's our lives.
It may not physically be there, but emotionally, relationally, in every other way we're consumed.
There are piles of things all around us.
Many of us, Christians included,
have embraced the distractions of the world.
We live in this vacuum of chaos.
Unfortunately, some of us even seek out chaos because that's the order that we know.
I want to challenge you today in the midst of this chaotic season, allow God to speak into the cluttered moments of your life.
Allow Him to renew a joy inside of you.
Allow Him to bring you to the place of not just existing, but a thriving in Him.
Why?
Because you are favored amongst God's people.
Some translations say highly favored.
This particular word has a blessing wrapped around it.
It's honor and it's grace.
Maybe you're here and you're like, you know, I don't know that I can step into that.
Well, if you're a child of God, if you've given your life to Jesus Christ, you're not only favored, but you're so much more.
It's time to step into what God has called for you.
Notice what happened next.
Mary was greatly troubled.
What kind of greeting this might be?
In other words, what's happening right now?
See, there wasn't anybody that Mary could go to and say, hey, do you remember the last time Gabriel showed up to you?
What was that like?
You know that time and a big tall angel showed up in your room and said that you were favored?
What did you feel at that moment?
No, Mary, in that moment, she was cast out in her mind.
The Bible says she couldn't quite wrap herself around what was going on.
But here's what I love about God.
He doesn't always wait for us to slow down.
But right in the middle of our mess, he chooses to speak.
I can hear some of your arguments this morning.
You're saying things like this, well, I haven't heard God talk to me in quite some time.
Could it be that we haven't made room for him?
Could it be that we haven't just said, Lord, I give you this moment, but we're running from one fire to the next, one chaotic moment to the next?
We say things like, well, I'll hear from God when life comes down, but what if God is saying, you'll hear from me,
When you slow down, regardless what life is doing, this uncluttered moment with God starts when we pause long enough to simply listen to Him.
The psalmist said it this way, be still and know that I am God.
Be still.
When is the last time that you just turned off the noise?
When's the last time that you put down the phone?
Better yet, when's the last time you turned off the phone?
You know, they say that electronics is good every once in a while to reboot them because it kind of refreshes.
I believe the same thing goes for us.
Sometimes we need a good reboot.
We need to disconnect.
I used to struggle with that heavily.
I remember when I was in St. Charles, I had a laptop and I would take that laptop with me everywhere and at home, we'd be sitting together as a family and I'd be working on my laptop into the evening.
Yeah, I'm with you.
Yep, yep, yep.
I'm still working.
I'm talking to the family.
I'm still here, but I'm working.
I'm not disconnected.
I was plugged in all the time.
When I moved here, I said, I don't want a laptop.
I have no self-control.
Okay, can I just be transparent with you?
About seven years I went with a desktop because I knew that if I had a laptop, it would go with me and I would work.
About seven years later, I can now honestly take my laptop home.
I don't open it.
I don't.
Now I got my phone.
If emergency, I can get to something, but I'm not going to be working.
I'm going to take some time just to decompress my mind.
I remember one of the very first big vacations we took as a family.
We went to a beach and we were hanging out at the beach.
In fact, we were on an island, a Sanibel Island, right off coast of Florida.
And we were in this condo and we were going to the beach every day.
Basically our agenda was beach, pool, eat, beach, pool, eat, nap, beach, pool, eat, nap.
And that was kind of the agenda.
And it took me to talk about Wednesday of that week to realize this is okay.
Because we have geared our lives so much to be accustomed
to chaos that we run on thriving, we run on just this high fight or flight moments all the time.
But we weren't created for that.
The Sabbath, the Bible says, which created for us.
We need moments of rest, moments just to be still and know that he is God, to allow God to speak into our lives.
Number two is this.
If we allow it, our faith can create space for God to move.
Now, what was Mary's original response?
Maybe a little bit confusion.
Perhaps a little bit of doubt or uncertainty.
No doubt there was fear that raised up inside of her.
I don't know about you, but that...
because this is often our response.
God tries to speak into our lives and suddenly we come up with all the reasons why this just can't be true.
We build walls of fear, we build walls of doubt.
Surely this is not possible.
Look what it says in verse 29, confused and disturbed, Mary tried to think what the angel could mean, verse 34.
Mary asked the angel, but how can this happen?
I'm a virgin.
Understand this.
Mary did not deny what God was saying.
She just didn't understand.
She couldn't wrap herself around how this could happen.
She had to choose in the moment to make room for God to move in her life, in her clutter, in every moment, every situation.
She had to come to the place of saying, Lord, I don't know the how, but I know the who.
See, that's where we get stuck.
How in the world is this going to work out?
We say things like, well, I know that God can, but how will he?
I know that God is able, but how's this gonna work out?
Listen to the angel Gabriel's response.
The Holy Spirit will come upon you.
and the power of the most high will overshadow you.
So the baby to be born will be holy.
He will be called the son of God, verse 37.
For nothing is impossible with God.
Come on, hold on to that.
God not only has the how, but he has the ability.
Come on, let me say that again.
How did Mary respond?
Well, she quickly began to unclutter the moment she made space.
And the verse 38 says, Mary responded, I am the Lord servant.
May everything you have said about me come true.
Come on, that's bold faith.
That that's uncluttered faith.
She didn't say, Lord, if you will give me the full detailed explanation.
God, if you will lay out all this, God, if you'll put this on a PowerPoint presentation and present this in the moment, God, if you'll just make a Zoom link, we'll get together, we'll talk about this, you can bring it, we'll share screens, we can talk about this.
If you'll just lay this out for me, God, maybe then, maybe then, God, I can wrap myself around this.
Mary didn't say any of that.
She just said, I'm the Lord's servants.
She didn't try to take control.
She didn't create a backup plan in case it didn't work.
She made space for God to move.
Now here's the reality.
Fear says, what if it doesn't work?
Come on, have you ever said that before?
Yeah, every one of us, I'm certain every one of us in the room at some moment, at some point, at some time in our lives, God calls us to a situation and we say things like, well, what if it doesn't work?
And I've had that thought a lot as we've stepped out in faith as we launched our second location in Wardsburg in 2021 coming out of a pandemic.
The board and I had had a lot of conversations in 2020.
How are we going to raise funds when we're RSVP into church?
How are we going to raise funds when we're social distance?
We only have 106 seats in here and we're running three services trying to get everybody in.
How are we going to raise funds?
How are we going to launch another location?
What if it doesn't work?
No doubt the same thought when we went to Lincoln.
We weren't taking over a church.
We were starting a church.
We were renovating a dollar general building.
Come on, somebody.
By the way, I can't even drive past dollar general anymore without going, that should be a church.
I mean, is it wrong to pray the dollar general goes out of business so we can have the building?
Dollar general, I love you.
I call you dollar general.
I love you, but we're not praying you out of business.
But if you have a building open, give me a call.
Yeah, yeah, so I see these buildings, but what if it doesn't work?
What if it doesn't pan out?
What if it doesn't?
We're getting ready to build a building here.
What if it doesn't work?
Man, I spent a couple of days this week budgeting for 2026, and I'm crunching the numbers, and I'm doing thoughts of if we have a tied increase of this, or if this occurs, and then the thought crosses my mind.
But what if it doesn't work?
You see, fear builds up these barriers in life.
Fear says, what if it doesn't work?
What if God doesn't show up?
Faith says, what if God shows up?
What if God actually follows through?
What if God does what he says he will do?
When I moved here in 2012, church was running about 65 people
just one location.
And God placed a vision upon my heart, not a literal vision where I saw things, but a vision in my heart.
And He brought me back to the scriptures where it says, I'm about to do something new.
In fact, that was the very first scripture text that I read in this building.
It says, I'm about to do something new.
I want you to forget all the things that I've done.
I'm doing something new.
Don't you see it.
I had to come to the place that I said, Lord, I trust you.
Lord, I'm gonna allow you in the midst of the chaos of my life.
God, I'm gonna allow you, Lord, to speak into my life.
Lord, I'm gonna open the door by faith to allow your hope to enter in.
See, faith is what helps us to step out of the clutter and into his presence.
Psalms chapter 16, verse 11 reminds us that it's in his presence that we will experience
fullness of joy.
Some of us, we don't experience the fullness of joy.
We don't experience the peace of God because we're not hanging out in His presence.
Amen.
It's got to encourage yourself every now and again.
Come on, Ron, you're not doing it.
Somebody's got you.
I'm just going to encourage myself today.
Sometimes we got to physically move out of the chaotic moment.
We got to step out of the cluttered mess.
We got to step into the presence of God because then and only then will we begin to experience the fullness of His joy and the hope that He gives us.
Truth number three, very quickly, hope is established when we trust God above our worries.
Hope is established when we trust God above our worries.
Now I purposely use the word establish here because it means this, to set on a firm or permanent basis.
It's saying, Lord, I'm not gonna waver in this.
Though the winds may blow, though the waters may rise.
Though I may be pressed on every side.
God, I'm not going to lose hope because I'm standing firm on the foundation of who you are.
Mary didn't get all the answers that day.
Oh, she would still face the questions.
No doubt there was gossip running wild.
She wasn't sure how Joseph was going to respond.
Could you imagine that conversation?
but she chose to believe God's word over her worries.
I want you to look at your clutter today.
In what way could you or in what way should you choose to trust God more than the clutter?
Setting the clutter to the side, the worry, the doubts and choosing today to follow after him.
I remember the old song,
We used to sing when I was a kid.
I have decided to follow Jesus.
Though none will follow, though none go with me, I still will follow.
I never want to become guilty of leaning into stuff more than I lean into God.
I never want to be guilty of trusting stuff and trusting the clutter more than I trust in God.
It's not pretending that everything's okay.
It's trusting that God's promise is still true even when life is uncertain.
You see, even when you don't have the answers, it's resting in the reality that nothing is impossible with God.
Grab ahold of this.
For every reason Mary had to doubt, for every fear that she had about the future, God already had a plan.
For every fear you may have, for every doubt that you've conjured up in your mind,
for every reason you've come up with that it just cannot work.
I want you to know today that God already has a plan.
You may not understand it and that's okay because the Bible says trust in the Lord with all your heart.
Don't lean on what?
Your own understanding.
Don't lean on your ability to comprehend.
Don't lean on your ability to have it figured out, but trust in God with all of your hearts.
So this Christmas, don't let your heart get buried in the clutter.
Remember, Mary took all of this and she hid it in her heart.
Don't allow this most wonderful time of the year to become overrun with the busyness and the chaos of life.
Don't allow all the stuff of the season to drown out the sound of God's voice.
I believe that it's time for us to unclutter our hearts.
It's time for us to make room for God.
Because when you do, you'll find that the same God who spoke to Mary still speaks
today, the same God who filled her life with promise was to fill your life with hope.
Matthew chapter 12 says it this way, and his name will be the hope of all the world.
There's hope in the name of Jesus.
You see some of us in the midst of our clutter, we need to pause just for a moment and say Jesus.
Jesus, be the God of peace, be the God of hope.
Jesus will help us to establish this faith in you.
Jesus, when we come back to where we started today, for nothing is impossible.
with you, Jesus.
Come on, would you say His name with me today?
Jesus, Jesus.
There's hope, there's power, there's comforts, there's deliverance, there's joy in the name of Jesus.
Lord, speak it to our hearts right now.
Lord, calm the chaos, unclutter the noise, clean out the mess.
Lord, help us to make room for you.
In Jesus' name we pray.